Combine the method into one High-Quality Collaboration Turn Checklist.
It has five passes: Goal, Gaps, Grounds, Test, and Owner.
Use it whenever an AI output looks ready enough to tempt immediate acceptance.
Pass one is Goal.
Write the intended decision, audience, and acceptance criteria beside the output.
Mark any section that does not help that goal or that quietly changes the scope.
Pass two is Gaps.
List missing inputs, inferred assumptions, unresolved conflicts, and uncertainty.
Ask the AI which missing item is most likely to change the result, then obtain that input or preserve the limitation.
Pass three is Grounds.
Trace important claims to evidence, calculations, rules, or observable behavior.
Distinguish what the source establishes from what the AI or reviewer infers.
Confidence must be earned claim by claim.
Pass four is Test.
Exercise the deliverable in the environment where it will be used.
Run, compare, sample, simulate, or review it with the affected people.
A functional-looking artifact becomes trustworthy only after relevant failure modes have been tried.
Pass five is Owner.
Record who accepts the remaining risk, who can approve release, and what signal would require rollback or revision.
The checklist ends with a decision, not with another request for prettier wording.
First, check Goal and Gaps before refining the presentation.
Second, check Grounds and Test before trusting the result.
Third, finish with an Owner who can accept, revise, or stop the work.